Alcohol Content of Beer at Get Drunk Not Fat
Beer Calories & Carbs for Major Brands of Alcoholic Beverages
The GDNF database contains the calorie and carb content for all the major brands and types of beer, wine and alcoholic beverages. To find the lowest calorie drinks sort by the calorie header. The default view sorts the beverages by the percentage of calories derived from alcohol, as opposed to sugary fillers and other high calorie and carb additives. Maximize your buzz – while minimizing your caloric intake – by choosing beverages with the highest ratio of alcohol to calories. You can also search and sort the chart by beverage type –e.g. beer, wine, etc. or by you favorite brand. To find out which beer has the lowest calories type beer. For the lowest calorie wine type wine. For the lowest calorie hard alcohol type hard. If you are interested in the lowest carb wine, search for wine and sort by the carb column.

Pure alcohol is very high in calories. For instance Everclear has 226 calories per 1.5 oz and is 190 proof (95%) alcohol, the rest basically is water. Calories vary from drink to drink but they key to getting the most bang for your buck is picking drinks with the best Calorie from Alcohol ratio. Here are some examples.

Natural Ice has 5.9% alcohol and 130 calories per 12 ounce. Using the formula on our FAQ page we determine that 86% of Natty Ice’s calories are from the actual alcohol and the remaining 14% are from carbs and protein. This is a very good ratio, the best of any beer out there. Now on the other end of the spectrum is something like Sam Adams Chocolate Bock which has 5.5% alcohol and 230 calories per 12 ounce! In this case only 45% of the calories are from the alcohol and 55% are from sugars, carbs, and protein. Definitely not the best way to get a buzz if you are watching your waste!

If you are looking strictly for the most efficient way to get drunk you should stick with shots or hard alcohol mixed with a diet drink. Jack and Diet Coke for instance is only 195 calories per 12 ounce but 10% alcohol (3oz Jack to 9oz Diet Coke) and you get a whopping 98% of the calories from the pure alcohol.

Of the big three Light Beers (Bud Light, Coors Light, and Miller Lite) Miller Lite scores the best with 83.38% of calories from alcohol. I personally prefer Budweiser Select if forced to pick from tasteless light beers and it scores a very close 82.77% 
