This  document  first  began  as  an  effort  to  help  teams  within  Google, 
but  we  thought  it'd  be  just  as  useful  to  webmasters  that  are  new  to 
the  topic  of  search  engine  optimization  and  wish  to  improve  their 
sites'  interaction  with  both  users  and  search  engines.  Although  this 
guide  won't  tell  you  any  secrets  that'll  automatically  rank  your  site 
first  for  queries  in  Google  (sorry!),  following  the  best  practices 
outlined  below  will  make  it  easier  for  search  engines  to  crawl,  index 
and understand your content.
Search engine optimization is often about making small modifications 
to  parts  of  your  website.  When  viewed  individually,  these  changes 
might seem like incremental improvements, but when combined with 
other  optimizations,  they  could  have  a  noticeable  impact  on  your 
site's  user  experience  and  performance  in  organic  search  results. 
You're  likely  already  familiar  with  many  of  the  topics  in  this  guide, 
because  they're  essential  ingredients  for  any  web  page,  but  you  may 
not be making the most out of them.
Even  though  this  guide's  title  contains  the  words  "search  engine", 
we'd like to say that you should base your optimization decisions first 
and  foremost  on  what's  best  for  the  visitors  of  your  site.  They're  the 
main consumers of your content and are using search engines to find 
your work. Focusing too hard on specific tweaks to gain ranking in the 
organic results of search engines may not deliver the desired results. 
Search  engine  optimization  is  about  putting  your  site's  best  foot 
forward  when  it  comes  to  visibility  in  search  engines,  but  your 
ultimate consumers are your users, not search engines.
Your  site  may  be  smaller  or  larger  than  our  example  site  and  offer 
vastly different content, but the optimization topics we discuss below 
should  apply  to  sites  of  all  sizes  and  types.  We  hope  our  guide  gives 
you some fresh ideas on how to improve your website, and we'd love 
to  hear  your  questions,  feedback,  and  success  stories  in  the  Google 
Webmaster Help Forum.
